In this report, the reader will be presented a life-cycle assessment on the iPhone 6 manufactured by Apple. The reader will be presented both positive and negative aspects of the product.
Considering the different aspects, there will be a discussion on improvements needed in order to improve the sustainability of the product.
This includes improvements connected directly, and indirectly, to the product. The iPhone 6 is a smartphone released by Apple in 2014.
It is a powerful device with a 1.4 GHz dual-core processor. This gives it processor performance 50 times faster compared to the original iPhone. The phone is equipped with modern features, both hardware and design wise, yet at what cost.
The process of manufacturing the phone begins at mines where the needed raw materials are extracted. Minerals such as neodymium and europium, used in the speakers and the screen, are extracted from a mineral mine in Mountain Pass in California.
However, this is just a small contribution considering China stands for 90 % of the mining. Companies based in countries like Germany and USA contributes with different components.
However, since the assembling is done in Chinese plants, components need to be shipped to China. The final products are then flown to distribution centers all over the world. 
While in use, the phone will require energy for recharging. Apple offers a take-back and recycling program in most of the countries where they are sold.
Crucial components that can be reused are removed. If possible, glass and metal that can be used in new products, are reprocessed. By reprocessing materials and by ensuring components can be reused, Apple can achieve a 90 percent recovery rate by weight of the original product.
Apple released their first smartphone in 2007 in which they included a pair of earplugs. They released a new phone every year since, in which they included a new pair of earplugs every year. Adding up the CO2 emission caused from the production of this alone, would result in a large number. 
The earplugs released with the first phone fit perfectly into all models, including the iPhone 6. A way to avoid unnecessary emissions caused from this could be by offering a new pair of earplugs only to users whom have never owned an iPhone before. In 2009, a chemical used to clean iPhone screens poisoned more than 100 workers.
A natural question would be as why the production is not fully based in the US where the working condition as well as the energy use could be controlled better. According to their website, many of their retail stores in the US are indeed powered by renewable energy.
Why cannot Apple provide the same renewable energy for their production, considering the production phase alone stands for 85 of their total CO2 emissions.
In order to keep up with the large demand, speed is essential for a big company like Apple. The Chinese workers are preferable for the reason that they work faster and demand lower wage than for instance an American worker would.
However, as for the environmental aspect, it is in the environment’s best interest for Apple to find a better solution related to the form of energy they are using for manufacturing. Apple can set a rule saying they only cooperate with companies where a certain percent of their total energy use is from renewable energy. 
Fortunately for the workers, Apple has managed to push many companies to ensure the workers decent working conditions, including a pay rise.
Even though this is not directly related to a better sustainability of the product, this is a good investment in terms of more motivated and efficient workers. 
Most of the iPhone assembling is done by hand. This is good news as for the environmental aspect considering how much energy it would require to automate the whole process. Apple has improved on reducing their emissions coming from transportation throughout the last years. For the iPhone 4, the transportation emissions represented 8 % of their total greenhouse gas emissions.
For the iPhone 6, their transportation emissions reduced with 5 %. Even though this is a small reduction, it indicates that they are headed in the right direction. Beryllium, which is generally used as electronic connectors, can cause serious lung damage if its dust is breathed in.
Since their last release, Apple has removed beryllium to prevent harm for anyone working with the product. According to Apple, the packaging for iPhone 6 is highly recyclable.
In addition, the packaging is 20 % lighter and takes 34 % less volume than the original iPhone allowing 50 % more units to be shipped in one shipping. Apple also offer a free recycling program. They guarantee that all products collected will be processed and recycled in the country they were collected, eliminating related transport emissions. They encourage users to hand in old products by offering gift cards – given that the product qualify for reuse.
With a big company like Apple there will be consequences connected to the environment both in terms of the energy use and in terms of the gas emissions. Fortunately, Apple has been aware of their negative impact on the nature and has taken visible action. Despite of this, as this report points out, they have areas they can improve on. They should specifically focus on encouraging suppliers and other partners to use renewable forms of energy.  
With a company like Apple, even the smallest change can pose a big difference on a bigger scale and over a longer period.  